src/doc/howto/install.md, before:

---
title: Install OpenCilk v1.1
tags: install
excerpt: It's as easy as one, two, three.
sidebar: Documentation
eleventyNavigation:
  order: -1
hero:
  image: 
  height: h-20
  title: 
---

## Requirements

OpenCilk v1.1 runs on Intel x86 64-bit processors (Haswell and newer), AMD x86 64-bit processors (Excavator and newer), and Apple M1 and other 64-bit ARM processors. It has been tested on the following operating systems:
 - Ubuntu (18.04, 20.04)
 - FreeBSD (13)
 - Fedora (32)
 - macOS (10.15, 11.2)

## Download

Use the links below to download the appropriate OpenCilk shell archive (<code>.sh</code>) and precompiled binaries (<code>.tar.gz</code>).

**Linux**
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.sh](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.sh)
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.tar.gz](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.tar.gz)

**macOS**
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.sh](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.sh)
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.tar.gz](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.tar.gz)

**Docker**
 - [docker-opencilk-v1.1.tar.gz](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/docker-opencilk-v1.1.tar.gz)

## Install

Execute the script to install OpenCilk into the current directory.

```bash
> do something
```

## Test

Your OpenCilk installation includes the following components:

 - Compiler
 - Runtime scheduler
 - Race detector
 - Scalability analyzer

### Test the compiler

```bash
> do compiler thing
```

### Test the runtime scheduler

```bash
> do runtime thing
```

### Test the race detector

```bash
> do race detector thing
```

### Test the scalability analyzer

```bash
> do scalability thing
```

## Next Steps

Something about code libraries and development resources?

Link to getting started with OpenCilk.


See also: **[Building OpenCilk from source](../building-opencilk-from-source)**

Commit message:

getting started content and more

src/doc/howto/install.md, after:

---
title: Install OpenCilk
tags: install
excerpt: It's as easy as one, two, three.
sidebar: Documentation
eleventyNavigation:
  order: -2
hero:
  image: 
  height: h-20
  title: 
---

## Requirements

OpenCilk v1.1 runs on Intel x86 64-bit processors (Haswell and newer), AMD x86 64-bit processors (Excavator and newer), and Apple M1 and other 64-bit ARM processors. It has been tested on the following operating systems:
 - Ubuntu (18.04, 20.04)
 - FreeBSD (13)
 - Fedora (32)
 - macOS (10.15, 11.2)

## Download

Use the links below to download the appropriate OpenCilk shell archive (<code>.sh</code>) and precompiled binaries (<code>.tar.gz</code>).

**Linux**
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.sh](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.sh)
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.tar.gz](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Ubuntu-20.04-x86_64.tar.gz)

**macOS**
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.sh](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.sh)
 - [OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.tar.gz](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/OpenCilk-1.1-LLVM-12.0.0-Darwin-arm64.tar.gz)

**Docker**
 - [docker-opencilk-v1.1.tar.gz](https://github.com/OpenCilk/opencilk-project/releases/download/opencilk%2Fv1.1/docker-opencilk-v1.1.tar.gz)

## Install

Execute the script to install OpenCilk into the current directory.

```bash
> do something
```

## Test

Your OpenCilk installation includes the following components:

 - Compiler
 - Runtime scheduler
 - Race detector
 - Scalability analyzer

See [Getting started](/doc/howto/getting-started) to verify that your installation is working.


## Next Steps

Something about code libraries and development resources?

Link to getting started with OpenCilk.


See also: **[Building OpenCilk from source](../building-opencilk-from-source)**
